---
layout: post
title: Thank you, 2009!
published: true
date: 2009-12-26
categories:
- CouchDB
- development
- ruby
- tools
---

<p>2009 had been an exciting year! I discovered tons of new projects to help me
improve productivity. The following is just a (incomplete) list. If you feel left out:
just drop a comment below.</p>

<ul>
<li><p><a href="http://couchdb.apache.org/">CouchDB</a> Thank you, couchies, for promoting
the idea of schema free databases. Now I don't think that non-SQL solutions are
fit for all database problems. I think every developer should know
SQL and non-SQLish products the same. Still, it is good to have
something that complete, promising, and open sourcish.
A lucky 2010 to you, guys!</p></li>
<li><p><a href="http://flowplayer.org/tools/index.html">jQuery Tools:</a> If you do like jQuery
(like I do), and have to hack together a minor web application, with a
minor user interface, "jQuery Tools" is just the toolset you need. No longer
surfing the web for all those missing bits and pieces: tabs, tooltips, obverlays&hellip;
all in one neat package.</p></li>
<li><p><a href="http://www.merbivore.com/">merb:</a> <em>"Looking for a hacker's framework?"</em> The merb team
should really change the their website's title into something more, well,
down-to-earth. "Web development finally done (nearly) right." &ndash; 'nearly'
being my addition, of course. I hope all the good things don't just disappear
after the Rails merger.</p></li>
<li><p><a href="http://rack.rubyforge.org/">rack:</a> and then rack: finally we all can do all
the lowlevelly things we always wanted - in a server and framework
independent way. Thank you!</p></li>
<li><p><a href="http://heroku.com">heroku:</a> Now, this is phoenix from the ashes! I did a
test run of heroku in 2008, and was not really impressed. My then impression
was: "hey, nice idea. But a long way to go for something really usable."
Well, it seems, the heroku guys went a long way pretty fast. The new heroku
is just... awesome!</p></li>
<li><p><a href="http://gemcutter.org/">gemcutter:</a> Well, of course there
is github. However, for hosting gems github has already been
suboptimal. Luckily, gemcutter took over: <strong>instant</strong> gem publishing
allows you to shift parts of your applications in gems, without
being hindered by publishing turnarounds.</p></li>
<li><p><a href="http://integrityapp.com/">Integrity</a> <em>"The easy and fun automated continuous
integration server"</em> acts as Integrity's catch phrase. And yes. While I don't
consider testing being exactly "fun" &ndash; for me reading a book, partying,
watching a movie might be fun, but testing certainly not &ndash; integrity sooths
the pain. Quite a bit.</p></li>
</ul>
<h2>And this is what I expect from 2010</h2>

<ul>
<li><p>An ongoing battle between search engines, especially "google" vs "bing!"</p></li>
<li><p>A heavy battle between Apple, RIMM, Palm, and Google Android on the Smartphone market.
That who wins will set standards for the years to come&hellip; unless, of course, there
is some success from an Open Source perspective.</p></li>
<li><p>A quadcore iMac on my desk :)</p></li>
</ul>
<p>And finally the successful launch of our own stealth project... Stay tuned!</p>
